>> Brian Holt: So that means that we
have kubectl, it's installed, and
it is ready to interact with our
Kubernetes cluster, which is great.
Now, we just have to give it
some configuration to work with.
As you might imagine, something like this
requires a lot of configuration, right?
Because there isn't something that Kubernetes
can assume about your cluster,
you have to basically be very,
very explicit.
I don't write Kubernetes
configurations on the regular I leave
that to my DevOps team, and
I'm not a DevOps person.
So there is a very cool project that we're
gonna look at today that's made to get
developers Started with Kubernetes.
It's called kompose with a K.
It's an official project directly
from the cloud native foundation.
So you can see here it's actually directly
on the Kubernetes organization itself.
So it's a supported thing,
it's been around for years.
We're gonna use that and
it takes a Docker Compose YAML file and
it turns that into
Kubernetes configuration.
So it's meant to be, you get a bunch of
stuff working, you're satisfied with it,
now you wanna get it on Kubernetes,
Kompose is meant to be that first step.
So it's purely just It takes
this configuration and
translates it into this
other configuration.
It's like a one step thing you're
not gonna use Kompose over and
over and over again.
At this point you're supposed
to like switch over to then,
maintaining your Kubernetes files.
>> Brian Holt: So we're just
gonna use the same product here.
We're gonna make a couple
minor modifications, just so
that we can get some better output.
So first one is yeah,
we're just in this the same project here,
Docker Compose, and I'm gonna say,
links, db, that's fine.
We're gonna also add a, depends on.
>> Brian Holt: Db, this is just being more
explicit to Kubernetes to say hey, this
cannot start until this other thing starts
because Kubernetes is very particular.
It's okay, I'm gonna start this thing
first and then I'll start this thing.
So that's good, we want that.
There's also this thing called
labels that, if you give stuff
labels in your Docker Compose things and
then you deploy that it'll
show you all the labels so
it can kind of help you find those things.
And it's also just useful for
things like traffic, right?
And traffic's another ingress server
we're not doing traffic, so no thank you.
But we're gonna say
kompose.service.type and
there's a node port.
>> Brian Holt: So this is basically
saying, I'm gonna run all of this stuff.
And then the way that I want
you to expose it to the rest
of my cluster is on through one port.
So it's basically gonna do some
load balancing internally for you.
And then the other thing
that we're gonna do,
because this is all being developed
locally and we have not published this,
typically Kubernetes wants
to pull from a registry.
It doesn't wanna pull
from your local computer.
I think that makes sense, right?
We're gonna say, kompose.service, no,
not service, image, pull, policy.
And you can do if not present, that's not
what you really want. What you really want is actually never,
because I haven't published this anywhere,
so please don't try and
pull it from anywhere.
We have to be more specific about
ports here, you can't just assume.
So, that's all that we're doing there.
And then web, build web links.
This one we have to do,
we do have to link it to the API.
>> Brian Holt: And
we also have to say depends on API, and
then we have to give it
some labels as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
this is gonna be kompose.service.type.
And we want this to be a load balancer,
because ultimately that's
what nginx is really good at.
It does load balancing very well.
Load balancer is really just
a special type of node port, but
what this is signifying to like
whenever you go to deploy this
to Azure Aks it's gonna instead
of making this a node port it's
gonna make it into azure front door for
you.
So it's actually a signal to whatever
cloud provider that you're providing is
like hey actually want you to take over
here and do all my load balancing for
me, okay.
So locally this will just be running nginx
very likely in production it'll be done
by front door or whatever when you
are or Traefik or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: Kompose service.expose and
the answer is true.
>> Brian Holt: Because this is actually a
service that we want to be made available
publicly.
And then, again,
this is built, yeah, exactly.
Kompose, image pull policy, never,
right, because this is built locally so
don't expose that.
Again, I have a copy of this if you didn't
really feel like copying all that down.
We go back here,
links to the project here.
I have a Kubernetes directory here with
all of this stuff already done, but
specifically the Docker Compose part here.
This should all be the same of
what you and I just did together.
So now that we've done all of that,
I think actually what I'm gonna do
here is because I did make some minor
modifications to make all this
stuff work well to get Together.
So if you look here, like the Docker file,
I actually did give it its own nginx-conf.
Rather than run this directly from the
project that we were just in, I'm going
to go back to my desktop, and I'm just
gonna copy that same directory in.
So from /personal
/containers-projects/Kubernetes,
I'm just gonna copy that to here.
So if I go into that directory,
kubernetes, and see here.
And you don't have to do this, but
I'm just gonna remove *.yaml.
>> Brian Holt: Now I have as my Docker
Compose file, and if you look at that
Docker Compose file, it's exactly what
you and I just wrote together, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cool.
Yeah, let's just look at minorly just
quickly what I ended up changing for
this because I'm sure
that's of interest to you,
relatively the same projects
that I now have an nginx.conf.
This was just to handle all
ingressive traffic, right.
So now that you don't have a separately
exposed API service,
it's all just being routed through nginx,
which is what this location API does.
Everything else is exactly
what you expect it to be.
And then the only thing I did here,
I think actually,
I think I only did it here inside
of the source directory is I
modified the API to read from
the correct area as well.
Okay, cool.
So what we're gonna do, is we're
gonna say Kompose, which by the way,
I think you just say brew installed
Kompose as well if I'm not mistaken.
But I already have it installed so
I'm gonna say Kompose convert
dash dash build local.
>> Brian Holt: This will take
I'll take my Docker Compose file,
which it'll find automatically, right,
because it's called the right thing.
And if I go into my project now,
you'll see that I have
a bunch of YAML files here.
>> Brian Holt: That have a bunch of
configurations that you'll see some
of the stuff that came in
here from Kompose, right?
But generally, this is pretty just
vanilla Kubernetes kinda stuff.
>> Brian Holt: And we have a service and
a deployment for each one of them.
The service describes
the service itself and
the deployment describes how are you going
to deploy this when we go to deploy.
Now that we have all of these
configuration files, generally,
what you would do at this point,
if you were happy with it is,
you would just delete your Docker
compose or move it somewhere else.
I have intentionally cheated
a little bit so that,
as you might guess .yaml and
.yml the same thing, but
I intentionally named them a little
bit differently so that I can do,
cube control, apply -f for files,
quote, the quote's important so
make sure you please put the quote
in there, *.yaml.
You can't apply Docker Compose, that's
why I have different file extensions for
both of them, and I'm gonna try and
get this up and running on Kubernetes.
API created, created, created, yeah.
Looks like, I say Docker ps I should
be able to see everything running so
I can see Kubernetes db Kubernetes api,
and Kubernetes web.
Okay, and now I should be
able to say localhost:8080.
Is that what I was supposed to do here?
This gets a lot more difficult to debug
because it's all kind of in various
different places, right?
So yeah, here we can do kubectl get all.
And kinda get the bird's eye
view here of what's happening.
So this is running, cool.
Which is the api, the db, and
the web, that's all running.
You can see all the ports
that are being exposed here.
8080, 27017, yeah, and
then I don't expose the API
that's why that's not working.
>> Brian Holt: It should be on 8081,
which it is.
>> Brian Holt: And
I might not have gotten the,
>> Brian Holt: It is working,
getting a 200 okay.
Why is that get not giving what I expect?
it is it's just taking a second.
Okay, so everything's working except this
is all now running on Kubernetes, right?
Pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see the node
port, load balancer, cluster IP just means
that like it's not a node port,
right, it's just a cluster of IPs.
The deployment is ready, so
you can roll forward and roll backwards.
it's all the magic of Kubernetes.
Get info or
what was the other two command,
I can't remember what it was.
>> Speaker 1: Show?
>> Brian Holt: Is it show info,
cluster info there it is.
That's what I want kubectrl cluster-info.
>> Brian Holt: Some of the stuff you can
actually view directly in your browser,
it'll actually give you some dashboards.
Yeah, let's find that.
Advanced, that's fine,
except there is some continue, okay.
I don't have it set up correctly.
>> Brian Holt: But there's a bunch
of stuff you can actually be
able to pull out of it.
Yeah, it's got core DNS, so it's actually,
like, running its own DNS for
you inside of itself.
I'm sure dump would just
be a bunch of stuff.
Yeah, it's a ton of stuff
that comes out of this, but
you can see this is all the logs
that are coming out of it.
Tons of very cool stuff here.
Things like rancher have a, which is
like something on top of Kubernetes,
give you really nice dashboards,
which are also very cool.